README_BOT.md, before:

# Autonomous Polymarket Trading Bot

Autonomous trading bot for Polymarket BTC 15-minute up/down markets.

## Features

- **Data Sources:**
  - BTC price: Binance (primary) + CoinGecko (fallback)
  - Sentiment: Tavily search API
  - Technical analysis: RSI, MACD, EMA

- **Decision Engine:**
  - OpenAI GPT-4o-mini for trading decisions
  - Risk management with confidence-based position sizing
  - Stop-loss with three triggers

- **Trading Cycle:**
  - Runs every 3 minutes (configurable)
  - Discovers active BTC 15-min markets
  - Analyzes all data sources
  - Makes AI-powered decision
  - Validates against risk rules
  - Executes trade (if approved)

## Setup

### 1. Install dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Configure environment

Create `.env`:

```bash
# Required
POLYMARKET_MODE=read_only  # Start in dry-run mode
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
TAVILY_API_KEY=tvly-...

# Optional (defaults shown)
BOT_INTERVAL_SECONDS=180
BOT_CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD=0.75
BOT_MAX_POSITION_PERCENT=0.10
```

### 3. Test in dry-run mode

```bash
python scripts/auto_trade.py --once
```

### 4. Run continuously (dry-run)

```bash
python scripts/auto_trade.py
```

### 5. Enable live trading

**⚠️ CAUTION: This will execute real trades with real money**

Set up your `.env` file with trading credentials:

```bash
# Trading mode
POLYMARKET_MODE=trading

# Gmail/Magic Link account (signature_type=1)
POLYMARKET_PRIVATE_KEY=0x...
POLYMARKET_FUNDER=0x...  # Your wallet address
POLYMARKET_SIGNATURE_TYPE=1

# API credentials (generate with setup_api_credentials.py)
POLYMARKET_API_KEY=...
POLYMARKET_API_SECRET=...
POLYMARKET_API_PASSPHRASE=...
```

### 6. Run as background daemon (RECOMMENDED)

**The bot must run continuously to trade 24/7.** Use the daemon script to keep it running even after terminal disconnect:

```bash
# Start bot (survives terminal disconnect & logout)
./start_bot.sh start

# Check status
./start_bot.sh status

# View live logs
./start_bot.sh logs

# Stop bot
./start_bot.sh stop

# Restart
./start_bot.sh restart
```

**Important:** The daemon script uses `nohup` to detach from the terminal. Logs are written to `logs/bot_daemon.log`.

### 7. Alternative: Run directly (for testing)

```bash
# Run in foreground (stops when terminal closes)
python scripts/auto_trade.py

# Single test cycle
python scripts/auto_trade.py --once
```

## Architecture

```
polymarket/trading/
├── btc_price.py      # BTC price from Binance/CoinGecko
├── sentiment.py      # Market sentiment via Tavily
├── technical.py      # RSI, MACD, EMA calculations
├── ai_decision.py    # OpenAI decision engine
└── risk.py           # Position sizing + stop-loss

scripts/
└── auto_trade.py     # Main orchestration loop
```

## Daemon Script

The `start_bot.sh` script manages the bot as a background daemon process that survives terminal disconnects and SSH session closures.

### Features

- **Process Management**: Start, stop, restart, and check status
- **PID Tracking**: Maintains PID file at `/tmp/polymarket_bot.pid`
- **Log Management**: Writes to `logs/bot_daemon.log`
- **Graceful Shutdown**: Waits 10 seconds for clean exit before force kill
- **Session Independence**: Uses `nohup` to detach from terminal

### Usage

```bash
# Start daemon
./start_bot.sh start
# Output: ✅ Bot started successfully (PID 12345)

# Check status
./start_bot.sh status
# Output: ✅ Bot is running (PID 12345)
#         Shows: PID, elapsed time, memory usage

# View live logs
./start_bot.sh logs
# Tails logs/bot_daemon.log with live updates

# Stop daemon
./start_bot.sh stop
# Output: 🛑 Stopping bot (PID 12345)...
#         ✅ Bot stopped successfully

# Restart (stop + start)
./start_bot.sh restart
```

### How It Works

1. **Start**: Launches `python3 -u scripts/auto_trade.py` with `nohup`
2. **Detach**: Process runs in background, independent of terminal
3. **PID File**: Saves process ID to `/tmp/polymarket_bot.pid`
4. **Logs**: Redirects stdout/stderr to `logs/bot_daemon.log`
5. **Persist**: Continues running even if you:
   - Close terminal
   - Logout from SSH
   - Disconnect network
   - Exit Claude Code session

## Enhanced Features (v2.0)

### GPT-5-Nano with Reasoning Tokens
- Uses OpenAI's GPT-5-Nano model with reasoning tokens for better analysis
- Temperature set to 0.3 for consistent trading decisions
- Configurable reasoning effort: low/medium/high
- More thorough signal analysis before decisions

### Polymarket WebSocket Integration
- Real-time BTC prices from Polymarket's `crypto_prices` WebSocket feed
- Ensures price consistency with market resolution
- Automatic fallback to Binance if WebSocket connection fails or returns no data
- Transparent switching - bot continues operating seamlessly
- Eliminates polling delays

### Price-to-Beat Tracking
- Tracks BTC price at market start (15-minute interval)
- Compares current price vs starting price
- AI receives full context: "Current: $95,234, Start: $95,000, Diff: +$234 (+0.25%)"
- More accurate directional signals

### Time-Aware Strategy
- Bot knows how much time remains in 15-minute market
- Last 3 minutes = "end-of-market" phase
- Established trends near end are more reliable
- AI can boost confidence when signals align + time is low

### Enhanced AI Prompt
- Comprehensive context: price-to-beat + timing + all signals
- End-of-market strategy guidance
- Reasoning token optimization
- Clearer signal interpretation

### When to Use

**Use daemon script (recommended):**
- Production/live trading
- Running 24/7 unattended
- Remote server deployment
- Need to logout but keep bot running

**Use direct Python (for testing):**
- Development and debugging
- Single test cycles (`--once` flag)
- Want to see logs in terminal
- Need to stop bot with Ctrl+C

## Risk Management

### Position Sizing
- Confidence 75-80%: 50% of max position
- Confidence 80-90%: 75% of max position
- Confidence 90%+: 100% of max position
- Max single position: 10% of portfolio
- Max total exposure: 50% of portfolio

### Stop-Loss Triggers
1. **Odds threshold**: Exit if position odds < 0.40
2. **Counter-odds surge**: Exit if opposing odds > 0.70
3. **Time-based**: Force exit 5 minutes before market expiry

## Monitoring

### Log Files

When running with `./start_bot.sh`:
- **Daemon logs**: `logs/bot_daemon.log` - Full structured logs with timestamps
- **View live**: `./start_bot.sh logs` or `tail -f logs/bot_daemon.log`

When running directly with `python scripts/auto_trade.py`:
- **Console**: Structured logs (colorized) sent to stdout
- **Optional file**: Set `BOT_LOG_FILE` in `.env` (disabled by default)

### Key Metrics Logged

Each 3-minute trading cycle logs:
- **Data Collection** (2 minutes):
  - BTC price from Binance
  - Social sentiment from Tavily (Fear & Greed, trending, votes)
  - Market microstructure from WebSocket (55+ trades analyzed)
  - Whale activity detection (orders > $100)
- **Technical Analysis**:
  - RSI, MACD, EMA indicators (falls back to neutral on failure)
- **Signal Aggregation**:
  - Combined score from social + market signals
  - Agreement multiplier (aligned signals boost confidence)
- **AI Decision**:
  - Action: BUY/SELL/HOLD
  - Confidence: 0.0-1.0
  - Reasoning: AI explanation
  - Position size recommendation
- **Risk Validation**:
  - Confidence threshold check (default: 0.70)
  - Position size limits
  - Duplicate trade prevention
  - Approval/rejection reason
- **Trade Execution**:
  - Order ID (if executed)
  - Order type (GTC limit order with aggressive pricing)
  - Status (posted/failed)

### Example Log Output

```
[2026-02-11T00:31:08Z] [info] Starting trading cycle [cycle=1]
[2026-02-11T00:31:09Z] [info] Found markets [count=1]
[2026-02-11T00:31:09Z] [info] Connecting to Polymarket CLOB WebSocket [duration=120]
[2026-02-11T00:31:10Z] [info] Social sentiment calculated [score=-0.23] [signal=STRONG_BEARISH]
[2026-02-11T00:33:09Z] [info] Market microstructure calculated [score=-0.35] [whales=7]
[2026-02-11T00:33:09Z] [info] Sentiment aggregated [final_score=-0.30] [signal=STRONG_BEARISH]
[2026-02-11T00:33:25Z] [info] AI Decision [action=HOLD] [confidence=0.93] [reasoning='...']
[2026-02-11T00:33:25Z] [info] Decision rejected by risk manager [reason='Action is HOLD']
[2026-02-11T00:33:25Z] [info] Cycle completed [cycle=1]
[2026-02-11T00:33:25Z] [info] Waiting 180 seconds until next cycle...
```

### Monitoring Commands

```bash
# Check if bot is running
./start_bot.sh status

# View live logs with colors
./start_bot.sh logs

# Check recent decisions
tail -100 logs/bot_daemon.log | grep "AI Decision"

# Check if any trades were executed
tail -100 logs/bot_daemon.log | grep "Trade executed"

# Monitor portfolio balance
python -c "from polymarket.client import PolymarketClient; p = PolymarketClient().get_portfolio_summary(); print(f'Balance: \${p.usdc_balance:.2f}')"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Bot not running / stopped overnight
**Symptom**: Bot process not found, no recent logs

**Cause**: Bot was started without daemon script and terminal session closed

**Fix**: Use `./start_bot.sh start` instead of running Python directly. The daemon script uses `nohup` to detach from terminal.

```bash
# Check if bot is running
./start_bot.sh status

# If not running, start it properly
./start_bot.sh start
```

### Logs not showing / invisible
**Symptom**: Only print() statements appear, no structured logs

**Fixed in current version**: stdlib logging now properly configured. If you still see this:

```bash
# Verify Python is running with -u flag (unbuffered)
ps aux | grep auto_trade

# Should see: python3 -u scripts/auto_trade.py
```

### Bot keeps deciding HOLD / not trading
**Symptom**: Bot runs but never places orders

**This is normal!** The bot only trades when:
1. Confidence ≥ 70% (configurable via `BOT_CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD`)
2. Signals are aligned (not conflicting)
3. Market conditions are favorable

Check recent decisions:
```bash
tail -100 logs/bot_daemon.log | grep "AI Decision"
```

Common reasons for HOLD:
- **Bearish signals**: Market momentum is down, social sentiment is negative
- **Conflicting indicators**: Whales buying but overall momentum is down
- **Low confidence**: AI is uncertain about direction
- **Already positioned**: Bot won't open duplicate positions

To lower the threshold (more aggressive):
```bash
# In .env
BOT_CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD=0.60  # Default is 0.70
```

### "No BTC markets found"
- Markets may not be active during off-hours
- Try wider search: `POLYMARKET_MODE=read_only python scripts/fetch_markets.py --search "bitcoin"`

### "OpenAI timeout"
- Check API key is valid
- Network issues may cause timeouts
- Bot will return HOLD on timeout (graceful degradation)

### "Tavily search failed"
- Check API key is valid
- Sentiment will default to neutral (score=0.0)

### WebSocket connection errors
**Symptom**: "HTTP 404" or "server rejected WebSocket connection"

**Fixed in current version**: Now uses correct CLOB WebSocket endpoint. If you still see this, check:
```bash
# Verify market microstructure is collecting data
tail -f logs/bot_daemon.log | grep "Data collection complete"
```

### Dependency errors
```bash
# Install all dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Test imports
python -c "import ccxt, openai, tavily, pandas, numpy; print('OK')"
```

### Bot crashed / unresponsive
```bash
# Check status
./start_bot.sh status

# View recent logs for errors
tail -100 logs/bot_daemon.log | grep -i "error"

# Restart bot
./start_bot.sh restart
```

## Safety Features

1. **Dry-run by default**: Must explicitly enable trading mode
2. **Graceful degradation**: Returns HOLD on any service failure
3. **Timeout protection**: 10-second OpenAI timeout
4. **Duplicate prevention**: Won't trade same market twice
5. **Exposure limits**: Hard caps on position sizes
6. **Comprehensive logging**: All decisions logged for audit

## Development

### Run single cycle test
```bash
python scripts/auto_trade.py --once
```

### Run integration test
```bash
pytest tests/test_auto_trade.py -v -s
```

### Adjust interval (for testing)
```bash
# Run every 60 seconds instead of 180
python scripts/auto_trade.py --interval 60
```

## Configuration Reference

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | - | OpenAI API key (required) |
| `OPENAI_MODEL` | `gpt-5-nano` | Model for decisions |
| `OPENAI_REASONING_EFFORT` | `medium` | Reasoning depth (low/medium/high) |
| `TAVILY_API_KEY` | - | Tavily API key (required) |
| `BTC_PRICE_SOURCE` | `polymarket` | Price source (polymarket/binance/coingecko) |
| `BTC_PRICE_CACHE_SECONDS` | `10` | Cache TTL for BTC price |
| `BOT_INTERVAL_SECONDS` | `180` | Cycle interval |
| `BOT_CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD` | `0.75` | Min confidence to trade |
| `BOT_MAX_POSITION_PERCENT` | `0.10` | Max position (% of portfolio) |
| `BOT_MAX_EXPOSURE_PERCENT` | `0.50` | Max total exposure |
| `STOP_LOSS_ODDS_THRESHOLD` | `0.40` | Exit if odds drop below |
| `STOP_LOSS_FORCE_EXIT_MINUTES` | `5` | Force exit before expiry |
| `BOT_LOG_DECISIONS` | `true` | Log all decisions |
| `BOT_LOG_FILE` | `logs/auto_trade.log` | Log file path |

## License

Same as parent project.

Commit message:

docs(bot): fix config table to show code defaults with note about recommendations

README_BOT.md, after:

# Autonomous Polymarket Trading Bot

Autonomous trading bot for Polymarket BTC 15-minute up/down markets.

## Features

- **Data Sources:**
  - BTC price: Binance (primary) + CoinGecko (fallback)
  - Sentiment: Tavily search API
  - Technical analysis: RSI, MACD, EMA

- **Decision Engine:**
  - OpenAI GPT-4o-mini for trading decisions
  - Risk management with confidence-based position sizing
  - Stop-loss with three triggers

- **Trading Cycle:**
  - Runs every 3 minutes (configurable)
  - Discovers active BTC 15-min markets
  - Analyzes all data sources
  - Makes AI-powered decision
  - Validates against risk rules
  - Executes trade (if approved)

## Setup

### 1. Install dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Configure environment

Create `.env`:

```bash
# Required
POLYMARKET_MODE=read_only  # Start in dry-run mode
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
TAVILY_API_KEY=tvly-...

# Optional (defaults shown)
BOT_INTERVAL_SECONDS=180
BOT_CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD=0.75
BOT_MAX_POSITION_PERCENT=0.10
```

### 3. Test in dry-run mode

```bash
python scripts/auto_trade.py --once
```

### 4. Run continuously (dry-run)

```bash
python scripts/auto_trade.py
```

### 5. Enable live trading

**⚠️ CAUTION: This will execute real trades with real money**

Set up your `.env` file with trading credentials:

```bash
# Trading mode
POLYMARKET_MODE=trading

# Gmail/Magic Link account (signature_type=1)
POLYMARKET_PRIVATE_KEY=0x...
POLYMARKET_FUNDER=0x...  # Your wallet address
POLYMARKET_SIGNATURE_TYPE=1

# API credentials (generate with setup_api_credentials.py)
POLYMARKET_API_KEY=...
POLYMARKET_API_SECRET=...
POLYMARKET_API_PASSPHRASE=...
```

### 6. Run as background daemon (RECOMMENDED)

**The bot must run continuously to trade 24/7.** Use the daemon script to keep it running even after terminal disconnect:

```bash
# Start bot (survives terminal disconnect & logout)
./start_bot.sh start

# Check status
./start_bot.sh status

# View live logs
./start_bot.sh logs

# Stop bot
./start_bot.sh stop

# Restart
./start_bot.sh restart
```

**Important:** The daemon script uses `nohup` to detach from the terminal. Logs are written to `logs/bot_daemon.log`.

### 7. Alternative: Run directly (for testing)

```bash
# Run in foreground (stops when terminal closes)
python scripts/auto_trade.py

# Single test cycle
python scripts/auto_trade.py --once
```

## Architecture

```
polymarket/trading/
├── btc_price.py      # BTC price from Binance/CoinGecko
├── sentiment.py      # Market sentiment via Tavily
├── technical.py      # RSI, MACD, EMA calculations
├── ai_decision.py    # OpenAI decision engine
└── risk.py           # Position sizing + stop-loss

scripts/
└── auto_trade.py     # Main orchestration loop
```

## Daemon Script

The `start_bot.sh` script manages the bot as a background daemon process that survives terminal disconnects and SSH session closures.

### Features

- **Process Management**: Start, stop, restart, and check status
- **PID Tracking**: Maintains PID file at `/tmp/polymarket_bot.pid`
- **Log Management**: Writes to `logs/bot_daemon.log`
- **Graceful Shutdown**: Waits 10 seconds for clean exit before force kill
- **Session Independence**: Uses `nohup` to detach from terminal

### Usage

```bash
# Start daemon
./start_bot.sh start
# Output: ✅ Bot started successfully (PID 12345)

# Check status
./start_bot.sh status
# Output: ✅ Bot is running (PID 12345)
#         Shows: PID, elapsed time, memory usage

# View live logs
./start_bot.sh logs
# Tails logs/bot_daemon.log with live updates

# Stop daemon
./start_bot.sh stop
# Output: 🛑 Stopping bot (PID 12345)...
#         ✅ Bot stopped successfully

# Restart (stop + start)
./start_bot.sh restart
```

### How It Works

1. **Start**: Launches `python3 -u scripts/auto_trade.py` with `nohup`
2. **Detach**: Process runs in background, independent of terminal
3. **PID File**: Saves process ID to `/tmp/polymarket_bot.pid`
4. **Logs**: Redirects stdout/stderr to `logs/bot_daemon.log`
5. **Persist**: Continues running even if you:
   - Close terminal
   - Logout from SSH
   - Disconnect network
   - Exit Claude Code session

## Enhanced Features (v2.0)

### GPT-5-Nano with Reasoning Tokens
- Uses OpenAI's GPT-5-Nano model with reasoning tokens for better analysis
- Temperature set to 0.3 for consistent trading decisions
- Configurable reasoning effort: low/medium/high
- More thorough signal analysis before decisions

### Polymarket WebSocket Integration
- Real-time BTC prices from Polymarket's `crypto_prices` WebSocket feed
- Ensures price consistency with market resolution
- Automatic fallback to Binance if WebSocket connection fails or returns no data
- Transparent switching - bot continues operating seamlessly
- Eliminates polling delays

### Price-to-Beat Tracking
- Tracks BTC price at market start (15-minute interval)
- Compares current price vs starting price
- AI receives full context: "Current: $95,234, Start: $95,000, Diff: +$234 (+0.25%)"
- More accurate directional signals

### Time-Aware Strategy
- Bot knows how much time remains in 15-minute market
- Last 3 minutes = "end-of-market" phase
- Established trends near end are more reliable
- AI can boost confidence when signals align + time is low

### Enhanced AI Prompt
- Comprehensive context: price-to-beat + timing + all signals
- End-of-market strategy guidance
- Reasoning token optimization
- Clearer signal interpretation

### When to Use

**Use daemon script (recommended):**
- Production/live trading
- Running 24/7 unattended
- Remote server deployment
- Need to logout but keep bot running

**Use direct Python (for testing):**
- Development and debugging
- Single test cycles (`--once` flag)
- Want to see logs in terminal
- Need to stop bot with Ctrl+C

## Risk Management

### Position Sizing
- Confidence 75-80%: 50% of max position
- Confidence 80-90%: 75% of max position
- Confidence 90%+: 100% of max position
- Max single position: 10% of portfolio
- Max total exposure: 50% of portfolio

### Stop-Loss Triggers
1. **Odds threshold**: Exit if position odds < 0.40
2. **Counter-odds surge**: Exit if opposing odds > 0.70
3. **Time-based**: Force exit 5 minutes before market expiry

## Monitoring

### Log Files

When running with `./start_bot.sh`:
- **Daemon logs**: `logs/bot_daemon.log` - Full structured logs with timestamps
- **View live**: `./start_bot.sh logs` or `tail -f logs/bot_daemon.log`

When running directly with `python scripts/auto_trade.py`:
- **Console**: Structured logs (colorized) sent to stdout
- **Optional file**: Set `BOT_LOG_FILE` in `.env` (disabled by default)

### Key Metrics Logged

Each 3-minute trading cycle logs:
- **Data Collection** (2 minutes):
  - BTC price from Binance
  - Social sentiment from Tavily (Fear & Greed, trending, votes)
  - Market microstructure from WebSocket (55+ trades analyzed)
  - Whale activity detection (orders > $100)
- **Technical Analysis**:
  - RSI, MACD, EMA indicators (falls back to neutral on failure)
- **Signal Aggregation**:
  - Combined score from social + market signals
  - Agreement multiplier (aligned signals boost confidence)
- **AI Decision**:
  - Action: BUY/SELL/HOLD
  - Confidence: 0.0-1.0
  - Reasoning: AI explanation
  - Position size recommendation
- **Risk Validation**:
  - Confidence threshold check (default: 0.70)
  - Position size limits
  - Duplicate trade prevention
  - Approval/rejection reason
- **Trade Execution**:
  - Order ID (if executed)
  - Order type (GTC limit order with aggressive pricing)
  - Status (posted/failed)

### Example Log Output

```
[2026-02-11T00:31:08Z] [info] Starting trading cycle [cycle=1]
[2026-02-11T00:31:09Z] [info] Found markets [count=1]
[2026-02-11T00:31:09Z] [info] Connecting to Polymarket CLOB WebSocket [duration=120]
[2026-02-11T00:31:10Z] [info] Social sentiment calculated [score=-0.23] [signal=STRONG_BEARISH]
[2026-02-11T00:33:09Z] [info] Market microstructure calculated [score=-0.35] [whales=7]
[2026-02-11T00:33:09Z] [info] Sentiment aggregated [final_score=-0.30] [signal=STRONG_BEARISH]
[2026-02-11T00:33:25Z] [info] AI Decision [action=HOLD] [confidence=0.93] [reasoning='...']
[2026-02-11T00:33:25Z] [info] Decision rejected by risk manager [reason='Action is HOLD']
[2026-02-11T00:33:25Z] [info] Cycle completed [cycle=1]
[2026-02-11T00:33:25Z] [info] Waiting 180 seconds until next cycle...
```

### Monitoring Commands

```bash
# Check if bot is running
./start_bot.sh status

# View live logs with colors
./start_bot.sh logs

# Check recent decisions
tail -100 logs/bot_daemon.log | grep "AI Decision"

# Check if any trades were executed
tail -100 logs/bot_daemon.log | grep "Trade executed"

# Monitor portfolio balance
python -c "from polymarket.client import PolymarketClient; p = PolymarketClient().get_portfolio_summary(); print(f'Balance: \${p.usdc_balance:.2f}')"
```

## Troubleshooting

### Bot not running / stopped overnight
**Symptom**: Bot process not found, no recent logs

**Cause**: Bot was started without daemon script and terminal session closed

**Fix**: Use `./start_bot.sh start` instead of running Python directly. The daemon script uses `nohup` to detach from terminal.

```bash
# Check if bot is running
./start_bot.sh status

# If not running, start it properly
./start_bot.sh start
```

### Logs not showing / invisible
**Symptom**: Only print() statements appear, no structured logs

**Fixed in current version**: stdlib logging now properly configured. If you still see this:

```bash
# Verify Python is running with -u flag (unbuffered)
ps aux | grep auto_trade

# Should see: python3 -u scripts/auto_trade.py
```

### Bot keeps deciding HOLD / not trading
**Symptom**: Bot runs but never places orders

**This is normal!** The bot only trades when:
1. Confidence ≥ 70% (configurable via `BOT_CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD`)
2. Signals are aligned (not conflicting)
3. Market conditions are favorable

Check recent decisions:
```bash
tail -100 logs/bot_daemon.log | grep "AI Decision"
```

Common reasons for HOLD:
- **Bearish signals**: Market momentum is down, social sentiment is negative
- **Conflicting indicators**: Whales buying but overall momentum is down
- **Low confidence**: AI is uncertain about direction
- **Already positioned**: Bot won't open duplicate positions

To lower the threshold (more aggressive):
```bash
# In .env
BOT_CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD=0.60  # Default is 0.70
```

### "No BTC markets found"
- Markets may not be active during off-hours
- Try wider search: `POLYMARKET_MODE=read_only python scripts/fetch_markets.py --search "bitcoin"`

### "OpenAI timeout"
- Check API key is valid
- Network issues may cause timeouts
- Bot will return HOLD on timeout (graceful degradation)

### "Tavily search failed"
- Check API key is valid
- Sentiment will default to neutral (score=0.0)

### WebSocket connection errors
**Symptom**: "HTTP 404" or "server rejected WebSocket connection"

**Fixed in current version**: Now uses correct CLOB WebSocket endpoint. If you still see this, check:
```bash
# Verify market microstructure is collecting data
tail -f logs/bot_daemon.log | grep "Data collection complete"
```

### Dependency errors
```bash
# Install all dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Test imports
python -c "import ccxt, openai, tavily, pandas, numpy; print('OK')"
```

### Bot crashed / unresponsive
```bash
# Check status
./start_bot.sh status

# View recent logs for errors
tail -100 logs/bot_daemon.log | grep -i "error"

# Restart bot
./start_bot.sh restart
```

## Safety Features

1. **Dry-run by default**: Must explicitly enable trading mode
2. **Graceful degradation**: Returns HOLD on any service failure
3. **Timeout protection**: 10-second OpenAI timeout
4. **Duplicate prevention**: Won't trade same market twice
5. **Exposure limits**: Hard caps on position sizes
6. **Comprehensive logging**: All decisions logged for audit

## Development

### Run single cycle test
```bash
python scripts/auto_trade.py --once
```

### Run integration test
```bash
pytest tests/test_auto_trade.py -v -s
```

### Adjust interval (for testing)
```bash
# Run every 60 seconds instead of 180
python scripts/auto_trade.py --interval 60
```

## Configuration Reference

### Environment Variables

**Note:** Default values shown below. For production setup with GPT-5-Nano and Polymarket WebSocket, see recommended configuration in `.env.example`.

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | - | OpenAI API key (required) |
| `OPENAI_MODEL` | `gpt-4o-mini` | AI model for decisions (see .env.example for GPT-5-Nano setup) |
| `OPENAI_REASONING_EFFORT` | `low` | Reasoning depth (low/medium/high) |
| `TAVILY_API_KEY` | - | Tavily API key (required) |
| `BTC_PRICE_SOURCE` | `binance` | Price source (polymarket/binance/coingecko) |
| `BTC_PRICE_CACHE_SECONDS` | `30` | Cache TTL for BTC price |
| `BOT_INTERVAL_SECONDS` | `180` | Cycle interval |
| `BOT_CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD` | `0.75` | Min confidence to trade |
| `BOT_MAX_POSITION_PERCENT` | `0.10` | Max position (% of portfolio) |
| `BOT_MAX_EXPOSURE_PERCENT` | `0.50` | Max total exposure |
| `STOP_LOSS_ODDS_THRESHOLD` | `0.40` | Exit if odds drop below |
| `STOP_LOSS_FORCE_EXIT_MINUTES` | `5` | Force exit before expiry |
| `BOT_LOG_DECISIONS` | `true` | Log all decisions |
| `BOT_LOG_FILE` | `logs/auto_trade.log` | Log file path |

## License

Same as parent project.
